So another thing that a lot of other SQL
courses will talk about way before
now is what order things happen.
So, let's say I put,
let's just put this query in here.
I'm gonna put Ctrl L.
This one here.
I think it's the same one,
no we'll type it out.
SELECT, type.
COUNT(type).
FROM ingredients WHERE COUNT.
(type) is greater than or equal to 10.
GROUP BY, Type.
This query doesn't work either.
So I haven't talked about the order
of execution of things in SQL
statements because when I was learning
SQL, all it did was confuse me.
Right?
Do I need to care, does a SELECT happen
first, does the FROM happen first,
does the WHERE happen first?
To this point, it hasn't mattered at
all to any of the queries that we've
been doing so far of what order things
happen, which is why I elected to not tell
you about it until now when it
actually is going to affect you.
Here it's gonna be like,
this is the problematic part.
I think it's reasonable for us to ask.
Let's say we're trying
to aggregate by type.
But let's say we have 600 types of things,
and 550 of them have just one.
And we wanna eliminate all the ones that
have just one, and we wanna see larger
macro trends in our data rather
than just groups of one, right?
So it'd be useful if we could say,
hey, give us back all the counts that
are greater than one, or
greater than ten, or something like that.
But we can't do WHERE because
the WHERE happens before the counting.
So the WHERE happens
before the aggregation, so
you can't say WHERE COUNT type is greater
than or is like, filtered here, right?
Because the counting here
actually hasn't happened yet.
So if we're asking for WHERE here it
doesn't make any sense because it can't
give you back numbers because
it doesn't have the number yet.
And if you think about this, this is
actually kind of a useful thing for
you because you can filter
before it gets counted.
Make sense, right?
Let's say we wanted to
count all the types but
we wanted to eliminate things
that didn't have images.
That's where you'd use WHERE.
Let's see, ingredients.
Right, so I have image here.
Let's say for whatever reason I was
trying to say, where image IS NOT NULL.
This is a sensical thing to ask, right?
I mean, I don't know why you'd
wanna ask it but you could.
So this is going to be filtering on
the rows that are going to go into
the result set.
So we need another thing, another concept
here to filter on after aggregation.
So again I think this is maybe the same
cuz I think literally everything has
an image but you kinda get my point here.
Actually, is that true?
It is, but, So how would we do that?
Well, you can add an additional
thing here called having.
So I can just copy and paste, I guess
HAVING COUNT(type) < 10
Or we can go the other way to and
say > 10.
So you can think of HAVING as
basically the post aggregation WHERE?
Does that make sense?
So the WHERE is going to filter
the things that go into the result set,
it's gonna get aggregated, and
then you can ask questions about, and
then you can filter further on
the result set using HAVING.
So, yeah,
you can use both of them together.
Or this is another one I had in here,
instead of saying WHERE image is NOT NULL
because this ends up being the same thing,
but we could say WHERE id is > 30.
So, you can see that actually does
modify the aggregation of it.
If we're only looking at things
where the id is greater than 30.
So this is my,
Maybe pragmatic advice to you.
I don't live and breathe in SQL.
I use it as like the toolset that
I use to write applications.
There are people out there
like data scientists and
DBAs that they live and breathe SQL.
I don't really bother too much of learning
the exact order said things happen
in SQL cuz it's a really complicated
decision tree of what happens when, right?
If you really dig down into it.
I only look at it when it
affects what I am trying to do.
So in this case, it made a big difference
because we need to know the WHERE happens
first, and then aggregation,
and then HAVING.
But do you really need to know
the exact minutiae of it?
Usually not, usually doesn't affect you,
which is why we're not gonna talk about
it, I don't think for
the rest of the course.
But if you're curious,
you can go look it up.
It's like explained out in depth on the
docs and Wikipedia, and stuff like that.
The other thing I'll
just tell you upfront,
I have everything here
in the correct order.
Right, you have to have HAVING at the end,
if you're try to put like HAVING in
front of WHERE, it's gonna say like,
you're doing this wrong.
I never remember the order
of things coming.
I'd have to test and
retest until things work.
And I have to look it up frequently
because it's not a part of my brain that
I just.
I don't commit it to memory
cuz it's not important to me.
So I'm throwing out there
that I think that's fine.
I don't think you need to memorize
the order of which SQL things happen.
I'm probably making some DBA really mad
right now, but I have so many other
like Pokemon facts that I just have to
keep in my brain that I just can't fit it.
God, I wish that wasn't true but
it's actually a little true.
Anyway